MCQs on Software Testing Principles
1. Which of the following is NOT a principle of software testing?
A. Testing shows the presence of defects
B. Exhaustive testing is possible
C. Early testing saves time and money
D. Defect clustering

Answer: B. Exhaustive testing is possible


2. The principle "Absence of errors fallacy" means:
A. There are no bugs in the software
B. Software is free from defects
C. Finding and fixing defects does not help if the system is unusable
D. All bugs have been fixed

Answer: C. Finding and fixing defects does not help if the system is unusable


3. Which principle states that most defects are found in a small number of modules?
A. Pesticide Paradox
B. Defect Clustering
C. Early Testing
D. Testing shows the presence of defects

Answer: B. Defect Clustering


4. What is the main reason for the "Pesticide Paradox" in testing?
A. New features are not tested
B. Same set of test cases no longer find new bugs
C. Testers are not skilled
D. Code is too complex to test

Answer: B. Same set of test cases no longer find new bugs


5. Why is early testing important in the SDLC?
A. It's cheaper to test at the end
B. It helps find defects early, saving cost and effort
C. Requirements are clear at the end
D. Development is complete

Answer: B. It helps find defects early, saving cost and effort


6. Which testing principle helps reduce the cost of fixing defects?
A. Testing shows presence of defects
B. Defect clustering
C. Early testing
D. Pesticide paradox

Answer: C. Early testing


7. Which principle highlights that testing can’t prove the software is bug-free?
A. Complete testing is possible
B. Testing shows the presence of defects
C. Defect clustering
D. Exhaustive testing is possible

Answer: B. Testing shows the presence of defects


8. What is the implication of the "Pesticide Paradox" principle?
A. Testing must be repeated frequently
B. Testers must write new tests to find more bugs
C. Developers must fix the bugs
D. Regression testing is unnecessary

Answer: B. Testers must write new tests to find more bugs


9. Which of these testing principles says that 100% testing is not possible?
A. Early testing
B. Defect clustering
C. Exhaustive testing is impossible
D. Testing shows the presence of defects

Answer: C. Exhaustive testing is impossible


10. Which testing principle is closely related to Pareto Principle (80/20 rule)?
A. Testing shows presence of defects
B. Defect clustering
C. Early testing
D. Pesticide paradox

Answer: B. Defect clustering


11. Testing effort should be based on...?
A. Developer’s skills
B. Type of test cases
C. Risk and priorities
D. Size of application

Answer: C. Risk and priorities


12.Which principle stresses that software must satisfy user needs, not just be defect-free?
A. Pesticide paradox
B. Absence-of-errors fallacy
C. Exhaustive testing
D. Defect clustering

Answer:B. Absence-of-errors fallacy


13. According to testing principles, which of the following is not possible?
A. Find all defects
B. Execute multiple tests
C. Automate testing
D. Use test data

Answer: A. Find all defects


14. What happens if the same tests are repeated over and over?
A. More bugs are found
B. Same bugs are found again
C. Bugs are resolved
D. New bugs are unlikely to be found

Answer: D. New bugs are unlikely to be found


15. Testing can only show...
A. The software is error-free
B. All possible inputs
C. That defects are present
D. The end of the development cycle

Answer: C. That defects are present


16. The principle "Defect clustering" relates to...
A. All modules are equally buggy
B. Bugs are evenly distributed
C. Few modules contain most of the defects
D. Bugs occur randomly

Answer: C. Few modules contain most of the defects


17. One of the testing principles states that testing should start:
A. After development ends
B. When the product is stable
C. As early as possible in the lifecycle
D. During deployment

Answer: C. As early as possible in the lifecycle


18. A well-known fallacy in software testing is:
A. All bugs are found
B. Testing assures quality
C. No defects exist
D. Absence-of-errors fallacy

Answer: D. Absence-of-errors fallacy


19. According to the principles, testing is most effective when:
A. Done by developers only
B. Performed at the end
C. Planned early and continuously
D. Performed manually

Answer: C. Planned early and continuously


20. Which principle focuses on updating test cases regularly?
A. Early testing
B. Pesticide paradox
C. Absence-of-errors fallacy
D. Risk-based testing

Answer: B. Pesticide paradox
